---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Art During the Renaissance
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-11-07
labels:
  - Art History
  - Italian Renaissance
  - Learning
---

When thinking about art, it’s important to know that it wasn’t just made to be viewed. Art has many different functions, from beauty and telling a story or the power, pride, and prestige it can bring the patron who commissioned it. After learning about the Italian Renaissance there are many different examples of this, one of which is located in the Palazzo Medici, specifically the Procession of the Magi. In the book Patronage in Renaissance Italy by Mary Hollingsworth, she talks about Gozzoli’s work and how it showed little interest in the new developments of the time. Cosimo, realizing that a plain and moral style wasn’t going to display very much power for the Medici decided that Gozzoli’s frescos set in an idealized and embellished landscape provided a sense of prestige and power that they wanted. Not only this but it also had a striking resemblance to Gentile da Fabriano’s Adoration of the Magi, commissioned earlier by Palla Strozzi. Palla Strozzi was another respected and wealthy man in Florence before the rise of the Medici, this made him a prime target for Cosimo’s policy to exile all of his potential rivals upon his return in 1434. This choice of theme and style can most definitely be seen as an attempt by the Medici to comment on the downfall of the Strozzi and the rise of the Medici (Hollingsworth, pg. 102). This just shows how artwork, although its purpose in creation is from a visual perspective, during this Italian Renaissance being art patrons meant using it to further your other motives. Which in this case was gaining status, and strength for the Medici family through placing themselves in a very historic and biblical scene, for which they could point to and begin to say we’re on this level of significance and if you follow us you could be too.

Another great example of the many functions artwork has can be seen in Ghiberti’s work on the Florence Baptistry Doors. Ghiberti’s first set of doors depicted twenty scenes from the New Testament, along with four Evangelists and four Doctors of the Church totaling twenty-eight panels. Once he had completed these he was commissioned to make another set to illustrate scenes from the Old Testament. This would be much more innovative, ditching the quatrefoil panels of the earlier doors to allow more exploitation of recent artistic developments. These heavily gilded and elaborately carved panels would be a crucial statement by the Cloth Merchants showing their wealth (Hollingsworth, pg. 29). I think that art throughout history has proven it can be a means of storytelling. However, with these panels, Ghiberti was able to create not only something beautiful to look at but also, a window into these biblical stories and that’s what made them so special. Going back to the initial claim that art has many functions, this is a clear example that artwork didn’t just have to be for one individual thing like how the Medici family used it to increase their status. Here, it was used in a
much more story-driven way as Ghiberti used beauty and art to convey a narrative.

Next, looking at the Cassone with the Conquest of Trebizond by Apollonio di Giovanni di Tomaso we can see another different way art was used. This beautiful wedding chest was given to the bride by her parents, containing clothing, jewelry, and other precious possessions of the bride. It was also outfitted with gold and silver on the
wooden chest, along with painted panels on the outside and inside. This is yet another example of just how diversified art can be because while it also was trying to show familial power and wealth through intricacy and beauty, it was also meant to be a more personal gift. Typically for this type of wedding chest, inside contained erotic imagery which at the time was believed to aid in fertility so that women could conceive children (Khan Academy article, Cassone with the Conquest of Trebizond). Going back to the topic of art being multifunctional, this just goes to show that once again art and the form it takes can greatly change. While in most instances it’s seen as just painting, or like the previous examples used to gain strength, status, or tell a narrative, here it’s instead a much more personal item that is given to a couple.

Finally, I believe that art has many different functions. I think that you can easily see this from the few pieces pointed out, the Procession of the Magi by Gozzoli served as a powerful piece of art. Used to demonstrate the rise to fame of the Medici family. The Doors of the Florentine Baptistry by Ghiberti were able to tell a detailed story through imagery which served as their main function. As well as the Cassone with the Conquest of Trebizond by Apollonio di Giovanni which was used personally by a newlywed couple to increase fertility. Each of these works had a different purpose when being created, proving that artwork does have many distinct functions.

