---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: The Hokuleʻa
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-10-01
labels:
  - Hawaiʻi
  - Pacific History
  - Learning
---

After watching a short documentary that covered the Hokukeʻa, I've enjoyed learning more about it's history and story of how it came to be. During this time from the 60ʻs to the 70ʻs, Hawaiian culture was sparking a growing interest in the language, music, hula, and of course navigation and voyaging amongst many other things. The Hōkūleʻa began its first voyage in 1975 and set its sights on reaching Tahiti, this huge feat would be attained with Hawaiian culture on the brink of extinction. With no navigator from Hawaiian culture left, they looked to a man named Mau Piailug from Satawal in Micronesia. With a few of his family learning how to navigate, not only would he be patching our traditional navigation skills, but he also would extend his knowledge and culture. Upon arriving in Papeʻete Harbor, over half of the people on the island were there sharing in this great heritage and respect for the past. 

In this video, they began by saying “Knowing our past gives us a rudder with which we can navigate our future”. I like how much this represents all of what the Hōkūleʻa did for cultures all around the world. This voyage is what sparked a huge revival in traditional navigation and eventually allowed the Hōkūleʻa to voyage over 150,000 nautical miles throughout the pacific and circumnavigate the globe in 2013, returning in 2017. Itʻs so interesting for me to see in this video just how many people, places, and cultures were affected by this voyage. They also showed various other cultures from around the world are excited about this canoe and what it means for cultural revival for everyone. I thought this was cool because while it is an amazing thing for Hawaiian people and keeping our culture alive, it’s great to see the effect it had on others so that maybe this “impossible” feat can inspire what may seem impossible to them. It was also very interesting to me to learn about the environmental ideas the Hōkūleʻa brought about. This revival of traditional navigation also brought up more ideas about sustainability and looking to the past to better understand our future. They talk about how the ocean has been pillaged and destroyed by man and this canoe was able to bring up topics of sustainability, consciousness of the environment and just spreading the knowledge of treating the place that we live well. In conclusion, I thought that it was so interesting learning more about the Hōkūleʻa, and the huge impact that it had on Hawaiian culture and just around the world. 

